# encryptionPractice
This program will include 2 encryption algorithm: RSA and S-DES

  S-DES:
  
    -	The program will be run in 2 modes, encryption and decryption nested inside a menu. This menu will continue running until the user selects the exit option. 
    
    -	In each mode, a user has to enter plaintext/ key or ciphertext/ key in a binary form. In order to fix this issue, the program will store input values inside the array with the size of 8 and 10. There will be a loop go through all the number the user type in and assign it to the array.
    
    -	Key 1 and Key 2 are created after the Key Generation process by performing different functions such as P10, P8, Left shift, etc.
    
    -	The program will both mode in 2 rounds based on the SDES algorithm and use a flag variable to identify between encrypting and decrypt
    
    -	Encryption mode the program will use Key 1 and then Key 2 after Key Generation process
    
    -	Decryption mode the program will use Key 2 first then Key 1 to calculate the original Text
  
  RSA:
  
    -        The program will be run in 2 modes, encryption and decryption nested inside a menu. This menu will continue running until a user selects the exit option. Additionally, the program can also run the RSA algorithm both encryption and decryption in 2 different ways: Manual and auto mode.
    
    -        Inside manual mode, all fields such as p, q, e, d, and m/c must be inserted manually. All inputs and outputs are stored in decimal form using a double variable type. Moreover, the validation of all inputs is handled with different functions inside the program:
    
          o   P and Q will be placed inside a do-while loop to ask for the user’s input and users have to input the right requirements in order to continue. An error message will be generated upon invalid input.
          
          o   E:  will be automatically calculated after receiving the p and q values and double checking with the user’s input (Error will be generated). There is a vector to store all instances of e based on p and q. The function will run through a for loop from i=2 (prime number after 1) to phi and if they can manage to find any “i” value that gcd ( 1, lcm(p-1, q-1)) == 1 it will push.back into the vector.
          
          o   D will be calculated as the mod inverse of e and phi
          
          o   If the user inputs number for both plaintext and ciphertext, the program would run without errors. 
          
    -        Inside auto mode, P and Q are generated by implementing a function called generatedPQ(). The function will automatically generate 2 prime numbers from 2 to 100 and return the value after being called.
    
    -        After that, the values E and D will be calculated automatically and store in a public and private key value.
    
    -        Manually inserting E can also be selected in this mode but the user’s input will be validated by the vector that stores all possible of E on P and Q being generated automatically. An error message will be generated upon invalid input
    

